Nadya Meshaykh and Jonathan here in Hong
Kong. You're watching the China Show.
I'm Yvonne Man with David Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're coming down to the
open of markets here in Hong Kong. Let's
get to your top stories today. Oil
prices are holding on to these gains,
early gains. Stocks slipping after this
flare-up in violence in the Gulf,
putting this 4-week ceasefire between
the US and Iran in jeopardy.
>> Secretary of State Scott Bessent calls
for China and other nations to join in
guiding ships through the Strait of
Hormuz, even as the US claims total
control of waterway.
>> President Trump meanwhile signals his
meeting next week with Xi Jinping is
pushing ahead despite rising tensions
over Iran and also Taiwan.
>> And Philippine inflation data set to
show the impact of higher energy prices.
The central bank expecting the highest
print in 3 years adding more pressure on
the region's worst performing currency.
Well, we are of course waiting of course
key central bank decisions coming out of
Australia here today. We have
Philippines inflation coming through.
The energy shock of course in this part
of the world is going to be the key
thing that we'll focus on when it comes
to central banks. Coming at a time now
when we are talking about the US and
Iran exchanging fire once again.
>> Yeah, I mean the fundamental story's
changing. The RBA's going to tell us
that. We're I think expecting a hike
there. This Philippine inflation which
Yvonne just mentioned
as well. This is an extremely, let me
just caveat this diplomatically, an
extremely ugly number. 7.2%
The estimates were for 5 and 1/2%. We're
coming off 4.1. So almost doubling
from 4.1% which was already on the high
side of things for March at 7.2%. This
will likely, let me just mention this to
judging on the language and the tone
coming through out of the central bank
in a conversation with the BSP about 2
weeks ago, this should actually push
them
even more so if not already towards
another rate hike as well. 7.2% is the
highest inflation rate
going back to 2023.
Keep in mind, at the start of the year
we were sub two
on headline inflation there. And we now
have a seven handle on this. It's
unsurprising why bar none the Philippine
peso has been the weakest weakest
performer across FX
here in the Asia Pacific.
>> Given the sensitivity of course where
these you know oil importing nations
really have on really what goes on the
volatility around oil prices, right?
When you talk about Brent now being back
above 110 or so,
you know, once again we are seeing
renewed attacks, you know, this seemed
like project freedom, this whole plan to
escort vessels through the Strait of
Hormuz has actually led to the reuniting
of more tension. So certainly that's one
thing that we really contend with here
today and central banks certainly after
the Fed last week now sounding a little
bit less dovish. It's going to be
interesting to see what the RBS RBA says
because they're set to hike it a third
straight time. But you got to wonder if
they're going to start taming so that
that the hawkish sort of tilt here now
just given now there is some concerns
about growth too there potentially.
>> Yeah, there's a fine balance, right? At
some point you will be hiking into a
perceived slowdown and I think when the
Aussie dollar has been already on the
high and strong side of things, it is
one of the best performing currency. So
we'll see really what the RBA says
around that conversation. That also
broadens out the view in this bond space
and it really really really bad day we
had in the bond markets yesterday. I
think we're back above 4.4% on the US
10-year yield. We don't have of course
cash treasuries trading today.
But but yeah, suffice to say the 30-year
yield also took out a milestone there as
far as US rates are concerned.
Equity markets though are risk off
although it's not a full full roster we
have today here in the region.
>> Yeah, I mean when you have Hong Kong or
sorry, China,
Korea, as well as Japan all close here
today. So, that AI trade taking a bit of
a step back and really just taking you a
pause here today. So, you're not going
to get that sort of all those tailwinds
into this equity market here today. And
maybe that's perhaps why you're seeing
when it comes to A50 futures, we're
still negative territory here. It is
relatively risk off today with Taiwan
being that exception. You take a look at
that. Taiwan market's opening up here.
We're still up about a third of 1%. So,
bucking most of the trend here today
just given the latest headlines when it
comes to Iran. But certainly, we'll see
how things fare in when when Philippines
opens up in just half an hour given that
pretty ugly print as you mentioned with
inflation.
>> Yeah, lots to watch out for today. Let's
get to you more details on the latest
overnight in Iran and why oil prices are
114 again.
Let's bring in our team, Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari, our deputy managing editor here
in Singapore, China correspondent Min
Min Low with some of the other angles.
So, Bilawal, let me start with you. What
happened and who started it?
>> Well,
that's that's a great question. Well,
what we see is is a flare-up of
hostilities
in the in the Middle East. There were
some attacks by Iran on some US assets
and also on the UAE, which is the
closest US ally in the Gulf region, of
course. The US retaliated, fended off
some attacks from what the president
called some small boats, some swift
boats. This happened while the US was
attempting to escort some ships
through the strait. So, what we have now
is a bit of a flare-up. We don't know
yet if this will lead to a full-scale
escalation or whether this is a blip on
the radar. Both sides are saying that
they're still talking. Nobody is
declaring the ceasefire as having
collapsed yet. So, there's still some
hope that this can be contained. In the
scheme of things, this was
relatively small-scale
incident, but that just shows the risk
that we continue to run while the
ceasefire is on.
>> Talk about the diplomacy that we might
see now that things are flared up again.
>> Yeah, I mean President Trump did say
that he is looking ahead looking forward
to this meeting with President Trump
President Trump says looking forward to
the meeting with President Xi next week.
So it looks like all signs are pointing
to that summit still happening
not going to be delayed a second time at
least from the US side. Last week we did
see those phone calls as well between
Foreign Minister Wang Yi and the
Secretary of State Marco Rubio. There
was a separate phone call with the trade
representatives as well between Holly
Fong and Scott Bessent. So yes, it looks
like that is still happening and of
course with the Iran overhang the latest
escalation has been those US
sanctions on these Chinese refineries,
right? And how China has responded by
calling on its companies not to abide by
these sanctions and that is the first
time that they are applying these
so-called anti-foreign sanctions law
which China introduced back in 2021.
First time that they are applying now to
push back against what they see as
long-arm jurisdiction. And yes,
President Trump and Scott Bessent
actually asking China to participate in
you know helping to escort these ships
out of the Strait of Hormuz. China
hasn't done it before. They're not
likely to do it again now.
>> They're also calling on the US is also
calling on the South Koreans to join in
this. What do we know about that?
>> Yeah, so President Trump singled out
South Korea because their ship got shot
by Iran and President Trump saying that
that ship was not escorted. And so it's
high time South Korea join in that
mission. But again, so far that hasn't
been taken as you know for US calls to
join in those efforts and the South
Korean Defense Minister has previously
said that sending a warship to the Iran
the Gulf region to escort those ships
that would require parliamentary
approval. So it's not something that
would be taken lightly. And same thing
for China. They have also said right
that they want diplomatic and they're
not likely to send a ship that they
would see as a potential escalatory
move, especially when Iran has already
resumed attacks overnight and has
threatened that any US ships approaching
the Strait of Hormuz to try to escort
ships out, those ships could be
attacked.
>> Project Freedom Blush was supposed to
begin yesterday.
Do we know what's going on there now?
>> Well,
um,
it's a it's it's it's an interesting
situation there. Uh, I think what
happened overnight just shows the
fragility of the situation when we take
it in its totality. This is the issue
with ceasefires. Until there's a
negotiated political
solution to this issue, these sorts of
flare-ups might happen at any time and
this the both sides might use that
leverage to advance their positions in
the political negotiations. So, until
there is a solution, until the two sides
move closer politically, this might this
is likely to to to happen again.
>> Speaking of
um, vessels being hit, Balazs, and I
think Min Min mentioned the South Korean
vessel here. Uh, there was a report that
Iran had struck a US naval vessel. What
do we know about that and that and
my understanding is the Americans have
denied that report.
>> That's right. The most recent news out
of the US was that they denied that
report.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Balazs, thank you. Balazs
Benedict, deputy managing editor. Also,
our thanks to China correspondent Min
Min Loh on the latest when it comes to
the Iran front. Uh, still ahead, we're
talking things through markets and what
this means now that we have seen now
bond markets certainly waking up to the
reality of higher for longer from the
Fed. Also, with this new renewed sort of
threat uh, to oil prices here today.
Equity markets continue to take things
in their stride in some ways. Apart from
today, we look at how developments in
the Middle East could play out across
Asian markets with Mark Franklin from
Manulife Investment Management Asia
multi-asset head. And we're going to now
be open up trade in Hong Kong. This is
the China show.
>> Welcome back. So, just to recap the
breaking uh
inflation print um a really, really,
really bad one coming out of the
Philippines. Above every single
forecast, it had a seven handle, 7.2%.
We're coming off of 4.1% in March. It's
hard to imagine this was at about 2%, I
believe, at the start of this year. And
hence, the peso is one of the
worst-performing currencies globally. Um
oil, as you can see at 114, does not
help that case, of course, for net
importers. Uh and the assessment coming
through uh coming through from Bloomberg
Economics is, given their reaction to
what happened yesterday, was that it
just underscores how fragile the
ceasefire remains, and that their base
case will remain a And this is out of
Beckwacer and her team here. All of this
underscores that strategy change, if you
can.
Uh for a prolonged conflict,
protracted conflict with ongoing and
sporadic fighting, will keep oil prices
elevated.
>> Yeah, let's bring in Mark Franklin now,
Asia head of multi-asset solutions at
Manulife Investment Management. Yeah, so
we're seeing tensions in in the Middle
East once again flare up again.
I mean, we're seeing stocks continue to
uh ride on AI earnings and the like, but
when you talk about bonds, you're
starting to see that melt up in yields
once again. Oil continues to remain
elevated. How do you actually look at
multi-assets now? And this what's the
strategy moving forward?
>> Yeah, there's a ton of drivers in
markets. I suppose what we've got to try
to do is focus on what the cyclical
impacts are, and what the structural
impacts are from what's going on at the
moment. The cyclical impacts are
inevitably high oil prices.
Energy-linked plays should do well.
Those that depend on energy as inputs
will struggle. And then there's also the
activity implications because of it's
it's a supply shock, it's not just a
price shock. So, in that sense, which
economies, which regions around the
world are more sensitive to that supply
shock. And that's why we're bifurcating
with a preference more towards the US
over places like Europe. And then within
the equity market construct, we like
those structural plays like tech and AI,
which still seem to have good tailwinds,
and the energy-related plays as well.
>> How
how much does do these head recent
headlines, recent, I mean, the last 3
weeks and the war affect invest your
investment decisions? I just wonder how
how how much they still feature in just
your your thinking at at this point.
>> That's a great question. One of the
things that we're grappling with at the
moment is we can form a thesis on how
the macro will unfold and build a
narrative around that. But you're
ultimately getting rewarded or punished
by price action. And so we try to stay
as closely focused on what the market's
actually doing rather than what people
are saying in and around that. By that
being said though, you know, we have
been in an environment where sentiment
and flows have driven markets. Every
once in a while fundamentals and macro
do reassert themselves. And the longer
this conflict goes on, then we will have
to start to reassess the weight that we
place on the different pillars,
sentiment, flow, fundamental macro.
>> And and the I think the bond market
certainly is sending some alarm signals
here. When you talk about what we just
saw with Philippines with that pretty
punchy number of what it comes to
inflation. The RBA said to hike. The Fed
last week seemed to show a little bit
less willingness to cut. And we're
seeing that the possibility of rate cuts
are now being priced out essentially.
Are we likely to see that actually be
you know, rate hikes being priced in?
>> It's a good question. If you look at
where the curve's at now, it's pricing
about 1/3 to 1/2 of a hike between now
and the end of next year. So it's very
much in the balance. If you look at the
progression of data both in terms of
growth and inflation, US growth-oriented
data has held up quite well. And
obviously inflation is grinding higher.
So the Fed was well within its rights to
try to create two-way policy flexibility
at least in its communication. But of
course, what the bond market will do
will probably move ahead of Fed
communication. And effectively, the Fed
will either endorse or challenge market
pricing. I think where we're at now is
uh the data is somewhat in the balance.
We've got jobs data on Friday. You're
probably likely to see an ongoing
moderation in the pace of hiring, but
the steady state of hiring activity
that's required to sustain the
unemployment rate where it is now has
clearly come down. So, that's to some
extent maybe a possibility that the
market looks through that will continue
to remain focused on inflation and any
early signs that activity in the US
context is starting to show sensitivity
because so far it hasn't, but obviously
in other regions, particularly Europe
and emerging markets, it has started to
do so.
>> The what is the appropriate exposure now
to fixed income with the all-in yields
that we have at the moment, especially
in the in the Treasury market where, you
know, we're pushing what, 4 and 1/2% on
the 10-year?
>> Yep. So, there's a curve view and
there's also an intra fixed-income view.
I think on a curve view, we continue to
remain a bit more comfortable playing
around the belly in the front end of the
curve and not taking too much term
premium risk. That being said though, if
rate pricing does start to shift to the
other side, you could see a bear
flatness. So, we're starting to
neutralize those curve views at the
margin somewhat. And then the second
point, intra fixed-income, we like
inflation-linked bonds. That gives you a
degree of diversification should rate
pricing start to move higher again.
>> Are people
asking you about that? We had a guest
yesterday that said, "Look, it seems
that most investors or their clients are
just willing to kind of see this as all
transitory." But are they asking for
more tips or inflation-linked sort of
products?
>> Not directly, but they're certainly
asking the question about what
constitutes an appropriate strategic
allocation in this kind of macroeconomic
regime. You know, the traditional 60/40,
the 60's worked okay so long as you pick
your spots in equity markets, but the 40
has obviously struggled. And in that
context, maybe a
you know, a mix of commodities instead
of traditional fixed income gives you
the requisite diversification and the
portfolio resiliency that you require in
this environment.
>> Will the AI trade ever be affected by
what what's going on? Because so far it
has proved more than resilient in the
face of this.
>> Well, one of the things that will
ultimately scupper the move is whether
you start to see a supply response to
the supply tightness in memory chip
semiconductors more broadly because what
you're seeing is very aggressive
inventory build and front-loading of
demand because of the fear that supply
will be constrained for the foreseeable
future. Now, if there is a supply
response by the major memory companies
in the next 6 to 12 months, then that
pricing will start to unravel and the
need to front-load inventory build will
start to wither away as well. So, that's
really the main driver. It's more of a
fundamental story, but for the time
being we don't see evidence of that.
>> Yeah, because I think Samsung reported
earnings last week and they gave
somewhat of guidance around their supply
and towards the end of this year. How
quickly does that information
land on our laps? Do we see that coming
or is that almost on an earnings report
basis?
>> Uh what I would say is that the market
tends to spend a lot of time looking at
channel checks and identify these
inflection points before the companies
actually report. So, when you start to
see memory cease leading the equity
market higher and start to underperform
both in rising and falling market days,
then that will be a sign that maybe at
the very margin sentiment is starting to
top out.
>> How do you look at the rotation on AI
now and how do you chase it?
>> Yeah, that's a good question. So, the
question is you don't chase anything
blindly at this point. You would have a
50% plus move in a single month, but at
the same time you're looking for plays
which might actually be um
I think it's second-order derivative.
So, those businesses that are let's say
fully resourced in terms of chip
inventory and we'll start to see
tailwinds for margins. And then the
second point as well is which tech
companies that are buyers of chips have
pricing power to pass on those rising
costs. So, take Apple's as an example.
Um
earnings were quite robust. Margins
actually expanded. They signaled that
cost pressures were rising, but that
they would have the ability or at least
the intent to pass it on through higher
pricing. And so, when you got very
strong brands in the the supply chain,
their ability to absorb that cost shock
is is more resilient than it for other
companies.
>> What about energy? And how much is
energy and AI play as it is
a geopolitical,
almost strategic, or or tactical
opportunity?
>> Yeah, it's a bit of both. Clearly in the
short term you've got this supply shock.
And this is why it's very interesting to
look at US energy plays because actually
there's an abundance onshore of crude,
whether it's coming from the gas complex
or from the liquids complex. And that
means that the refiners in the US are
benefiting from rising refinery spreads
globally, but are sourcing their
feedstock at a bit of a discount to
global refiners also they're taking
share both in terms of volume and in
terms of profit. So there's a cyclical
benefit short term from the supply and
the price shock. Longer term as well
there are undoubtedly structural factors
that are driving energy demand, whether
it's data center proliferation so on.
But one of the structural implications
potentially of what's going on at the
moment with Australia's fullness is if
this leads to a permanent change in oil
supply dynamics, more and more
governments are going to have to look
for other means to secure energy
resilience. And so things like nuclear
power, you're seeing more and more
governments around the world sign up to
pledges to expand their nuclear
footprint. And that's why commodities
like uranium actually look quite
interesting on a longer term view should
this disruption last more than a few
weeks.
>> Where does gold stand then?
>> Ah, yes.
>> The the the ongoing What happened to
gold?
>> Yeah, existential question when it comes
to gold. It keeps coming up.
>> Yeah, I mean I think we're in a process
now in the near term of two things. One
is digestion of the gains that we saw
over the last two years, you're seeing
profit taking. And then the second thing
as well is in a situation where
traditional oil exporting economies are
struggling to export oil and generate
dollars, they're having to source
dollars through other means to keep
their dollar reserves in place, which
means reducing their gold reserves to
fund that gold so that US dollar
shortage. So in the short term you're
seeing some central banks lightening up
their gold reserves in order to raise
dollars. And so that means that the gold
is in a profit taking phase at the
moment, but longer term as well
structurally, we think that the reasons
why gold deserves a place perhaps more
strategically in portfolios is ongoing
fiscal exuberance, not going to change
anytime soon. We're seeing fiscal
deficits super high outside recession.
It's not normally the case. It's
normally in recessions when fiscal
deficits balloon. And also at some point
central banks will resume their easing
path to respond to a growth shock.
>> Mark, fantastic. We covered everything.
Not China, but we can do that next time.
Mark Frankland, thank you so much, sir.
Asia head of Fonte Asset Solutions at
Manulife Investment Management. Mainly
China, Japan, South Korea are shut
today. Hong Kong, of course, is open and
the early going suggests we are going to
get marginal declines, 6 cents and 1% to
the downside. Dollar China is at six
offshore, 684 is where you are on the
exchange rate. The opening bell 8
minutes away. This is the China show.
>> All right, here's your agenda here
today. We're tracking, of course, some
of the risk-off moves across equities
here this morning and mainland markets
still remain shut for another day. So
certainly it's just the Hong Kong
exposure there, but earnings to tell you
about. We got HSBC, Budweiser Brewing
that are reporting today. We just got
those APAC numbers from Budweiser. First
quarter net income did meet estimates as
well. We talked about those GDP numbers
coming out. Paul Chan certainly talked
them up leading up to it today. So we'll
see if we in fact see growth at the
5-year highs that they're expecting. And
we got a debut here, Star Sports
Medicine coming up to the exchange.
>> Yes, 1609
HK. We're up 200% in the early goings.
This one was massively oversubscribed.
Um, so you split the name and you look
at the latter part. So it's actually
manufactures medical
devices, things like joint surgical
instruments and grinding heads.
Effectively things if you opened up your
knee,
this is probably what the surgeon is
going to ask for apart from the scalpel
of course.
Speaking of scalping and opening up the
index at this point 6/10 of 1% to the
downside on the Hang Seng index. A
couple of stocks we're tracking going
into the
going into the open today as we were
pointing out the course earnings right
to HSBC we talked about that. Budweiser
brewing already out with some numbers
coming through as well. Budweiser APAC
out with some numbers flatter that we
have anything else here we're tracking.
>> CTL that's a good one there with Morgan
Stanley raising it to overweight. This
is the H shares. So they're saying you
know the growth visibility is there. So
expecting this next generation
technologies for sodium ion batteries,
condensed batteries to scale rapidly
they say here. So that could drive
growth acceleration for the next 3 years
for them. So we're up nearly 3% for the
stock in Hong Kong this morning. As we
talk about right it is that renewables
it's ESS. Those are some things that
really reigniting the whole battery sort
of trade there and there you go. Big day
for Star Sports Medicine. Yeah they
could be the star of 192%
on their debut.
>> Not as good as some of the others we've
seen recently but
you can't have it all.
>> It's taken on a risk off day.
>> Yeah. All right as we go into the open
today a reminder that
a lot of big markets are shut across the
region so mainland markets are shut no
stock connect not that that wasn't an
issue as far as volumes yesterday were
concerned. We're coming off a very
strong rally in tech on Monday melts up
in yields overnight hence we're getting
the risk aversion in your screens ever
so slightly today. The opening bell 3
minutes away. This is the China show.
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show.
Uh mainland markets are shut today.
Futures are pointing lower though on
A50. 6/10 of 1% arena is also coming
down quite heavily here in Hong Kong. We
have GDP numbers coming out. Uh HSBC is
coming out with earnings today. So,
stay tuned for that.
>> and a half hours from from now.
>> Yeah, could be a pretty interesting one
just given that this this stock has been
up some 15% uh year-to-date and
certainly has been a favorite for a lot
of the the retail side of things. So,
certainly uh we'll see what they say
when it comes to the rates outlook, the
Iran impact and the like with HSBC as
you mentioned. We could be seeing, you
know, it's gloomy out there, but the GDP
print from Hong Kong could be pretty
rosy for the first quarter as well.
Here's how Hong Kong's shaping up here
at the open and of course we we talked
about here against this backdrop of a
flaring up of tensions between the US
and Iran once again. Oil is is elevated
once again. We're back above 113 for
Brent. So, that certainly is going to be
the big headwind when it comes to risk
assets and you're seeing that when it
comes to equities here that melt up in
yields that we saw in Treasuries as
well. That is weighing on the equity
complex here today as well. So, you are
seeing tech on offer. HS Tech is down
close to 1% after what was a pretty good
start to May uh for the trading month
for HS Tech. Uh there was that bit of a
catch-up story, but we're not seeing
that here today with the exception of
Baidu which seems to be bucking the
trend against most of the large cap tech
here with Baidu up some 1%. But Alibaba,
Tencent, Meituan, Xiaomi seeing uh more
than 1% losses there. HSBC ahead of
those earnings as well is lower. Keep in
mind though, we're not seeing that much
volumes here because you have China, you
have Japan, you have South Korea. Uh you
know, the latter two being, you know,
the really big sort of darling sort of
markets. They're all shut on this
Tuesday. So, that certainly could be one
thing to watch and contend with. 683
when it comes to the Chinese currency as
well. You take a look at what comes to
CATL though, that seems to be a standout
here according to Morgan Stanley. So,
you know, continue to see bulls kind of
surround this stock here. They raised
the stock to overweight uh just given
the the visibility that they're seeing
around growth. They say for the next 3
years, we talk about the pipeline and
what you're seeing when it comes to ESS
sodium ion batteries and the like. There
you go. So, the stock is up once again
uh more than 2 and 1/2% and then we have
a listing debut to tell you about too as
well. So, we talked about
>> health care product firm. This is Star
Sports Medicine. There you go. 190%
gains at the open.
>> Yeah, makes things like uh bone
grinders. Uh there we go. That's
something that you'd hope to um
encounter under well, you're under I
guess is is is a good way. Uh all right.
Uh inflation coming through earlier on
out of the Philippines 7.2% quite a
nasty number. You know, they
uh the pricing anyway was for an already
hawkish central bank. So, uh something
to watch. Some of the big movers not so
much reaction in the equity markets. The
uh the let's have a look at the currency
and where we are here. Today look 61 I
believe it's where where we are on the
exchange rate. They hiked the last time
they signaled a hike was possible and I
would imagine uh this inflation print
even cements it even further. The next
meeting is on the 18th of June.
Um now, this is a question. This is not
a speculative question. This is not to
apply any speculation. Uh is an
off-cycle move possible
uh given of course how we put that
question to the central bank recently
and they said no.
Um and I guess we will we will leave it
at that for now.
>> Yeah, but they were still pretty
flexible when it comes to, you know,
hiking multiple times uh from the gov-
the governor there last few weeks or so.
Uh still with us is Mark Franklin from
Manulife Investment Management here. We
haven't talked about China. It seems
that people are not talking about China
uh given the fact that you're seeing
Japan, Korea, Taiwan be so hot.
Do you think that's warranted?
>> It's a great question. Maybe it creates
an opportunity for Hong Kong, China to
be a creeping outperformer in the months
to come, particularly as those very
strong momentum oriented markets might
see some profit taking at some point. If
you look at the growth data that's come
through in China year-to-date, it's been
fine, um albeit led by net exports,
which may face some headwinds later on
this year as a result of global growth
moderating, but also
um export markets starting to challenge
uh China's heavy um supply via
non-tariff and tariff barriers. But
absent that, China also, by the way, has
an inflation point which is not
problematic compared to a number of
other economies. Um whilst fiscal
deficits are widening, they're widening
at a relatively modest pace. So, China
principally still does have the ability
to stimulate, although the appetite to
do so thus far has been quite limited.
>> It seems to tick all the boxes of a
market that one should own in this kind
of environment. I wonder why it's not
reacting that way. Are these on an
overall index level?
>> Yeah, I mean, we talk about barbell
approaches where you want some exposure
to high momentum exposures in markets,
but also some positions in your
portfolio which have strong fundamental
resonance, either via valuations or via
sort of um underpriced opportunity set.
So, I think Hong Kong China definitely
falls into the bucket of a valuation
point which is somewhat attractive. I
think the reason why it hasn't
necessarily uh been fully catalyzed by
the themes that have done so well in the
market this series um to some extent,
you've got the legacy economy stocks,
whether it's the banks or whether it's
the uh the mining companies or the um
the coal companies which have struggled
somewhat more, and therefore you've got
to pick your points within the market.
But I think more broadly speaking, if we
go through a period of volatility in a
global equity market context, again,
that valuation profile stands out as
being reasonably attractive, a
reasonable risk reward as a starting
point.
>> And the household tech names that
everyone used to buy up, they're not
quite really benefiting from this whole
AI boom in in some ways, right? Because
of the exposure to software and the the
concerns of AI disruptions there.
And you know, you have these smaller
companies that perhaps foreign investors
might not have that much
education or due diligence on. I mean,
how is there a still a bit of a gap you
think about the knowledge of some of
these companies, of some of these sort
of AI hardware plays in China?
>> Yeah, definitely. I think that you know,
traditional institutional investors have
typically stuck to the index weights.
It's those investors which have, let's
say, more of a a free-wheeling approach
to the market where they're looking for
those hidden gems. But at the same time,
we're in an environment now where you've
got to be careful about managing
liquidity risk. And so, you're probably
still likely to see an emphasis on the
large cap plays that big index weights.
And there, if you look at the gaming
companies, the e-commerce companies,
there are some tentative signs that the
growth cycle has been re-accelerating,
albeit for very sector-specific reasons.
And that's why the forward valuations
are coming down somewhat because the the
growth outlook is faster this year than
it was over the last couple of years.
>> If if one sticks to index heavyweights
though, you'd miss the rally.
Are you tempted at all to look beyond,
you know, further down the market cap?
Look onshore, for example, or is it what
you know, what what what what what seems
to be the gap right now in terms of
information?
>> Well, one of the things that we've
identified has been quite interesting is
the A-share H-share premium discount. It
actually places the mainland market as
being somewhat attractive. But of
course, what you have to do is also
manage your currency risk as well. And
given that the yen is weakening quite
considerably before the intervention
last week,
you know, the PBOC and the other
authorities are looking at the CNY and
making sure that it remains competitive
in a regional context as well. So, by
going down the route of mainland stocks,
you're taking some currency risk, albeit
with relatively low velocity.
>> Okay. Mark, we've got to leave it there,
but thank you so much for staying with
us. Mark Franklin there, head of
multi-asset solutions for Asia at
Manulife Investment Management.
>> Okay. For a closer look really at the
Chinese markets, and we alluded to this
as well, right? Some of the big winners
in the greater Chinese markets recently
have been on the Chinext index. You
know, we talked about CATL there, of
course, that's the A-shares granted on
the Morgan Stanley call, but it's really
this new cohort of new tech, right? In
fact, is this now your new tech index
that people should be looking at away
from
and taking a step back from the Hang
Seng Tech Index, which has has lagged
substantially.
Joining us here on set to talk us
through everything that we just
touched on here is Marvin Chen, our
senior equity strategist is here with us
to talk us through this. So,
Marvin, we talked about this, right?
Taiwan, Korea, Japan have been doing
substantially well. China's missed out.
So, how do we need to be looking at that
dissonance between pseudo?
>> Yeah, I mean, as you mentioned, you
know, the major indices for China have
really lacked this tech hardware
component and this layer of AI built.
You know, this these include the
chips, memory,
AI infrastructure, which includes, you
know, storage and energy. And these are
not very well represented in major China
indices such as MSCI China and the Hang
Seng Tech. So, yeah, we're still looking
at
declines year-to-date. But, as you
mentioned, if we look towards the
ChiNext index, this index is sitting at
all-time highs currently. And it does
have a lot of these hardware names. So,
yeah, investors do need to do a dig a
little deeper, look beyond the index
towards the A-share market and some of
the smaller caps to
find some of these tech hardware plays.
And they're just not as prominent as in,
you know, Korea and Taiwan.
>> Talk to me about Korea. Valuations
are still around the single digits when
it comes to PEs. So, do you think these
these stocks are still cheap?
>> Yeah, what's interesting about Korea is
even though the market's up like 60%
year-to-date, valuations have actually
declined because the earnings outlook
has just been growing faster, much
faster than the index. And
you know, this
it so to us it's been a purely
earnings-driven
rally. And
we would not read too much into the
valuations because, you know,
historically, the memory sector has been
very cyclical. Now, Now good news is
that, you know, we are in a super cycle,
and as long as earning momentum
continues, we think that the stocks can
continue to have momentum. But if if
there are any signs of earning slowdown,
we think valuations can normalize quite
quickly. And the other thing to note
about this is that, you know, overall
the valuations have been anchored by
just a few
of the tech giants such as Samsung
Electronics and SK Hynix. If we look at
the median PE for the
Korean tech sector, it's actually at
more than half of the tech sector is
trading at more than 33 times forward
earnings, and this is more in line with
kind of the global
averages.
>> That's an important distinction, right?
To look beyond just the
>> But the two.
>> The two.
The two. Speaking of two, Alibaba
Tencent are reporting, I think, almost I
think on the same day, if I'm not
mistaken, next week, on the 13th. Any
specific catalyst that they they could
give us?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think
it could be a the earnings results could
be a catalyst either way, right? It
depends on the numbers and the guidance.
But we think investors will focus on a
few key areas. One is being,
you know, is the AI is the cloud revenue
growth
and AI demand for AI infrastructure
justifying the AI investments?
And and also, you know, what their
strategy is going to be to monetize
their their AI investments. And, you
know, we could see some divergence in
strategy here. You know, we saw that in
the
in the US with Meta and some of the
Magnificent Seven, the divergence in
reactions.
And I think it comes down to whether
you're you know, you're selling the
picks and shovels or you're buying the
picks and shovels. So,
I think that's going to be a distinction
that investors will want to kind of
identify.
And secondly, obviously, is the is is
there any recovery in the core
businesses? Is China consumption
recovering?
>> Marvin, great to have you. Marvin Chen
there, Bloomberg Intelligence senior
equity strategist there as we look at,
of course, earnings in tech, China and
Korea as well here. Look at how Hong
Kong markets are doing of course as we
get into this commercial break and we
are continuing to see a downside risk
here when it comes to equities and the
Hang Seng is now seeing a pretty deep
losses there more than 1% for the Hang
Seng H shares as well with HS Tech
leading the way lower. We're down close
to 2% for the tech space here today.
This is Bloomberg.
Some major corporate headlines that
we're following for you today. The Trump
administration is reportedly considering
an executive order to create a working
group on AI. The New York Times reports
the proposal could introduce government
reviews of new AI models and resemble a
framework followed in the UK. The report
says White House officials briefed
executives of Anthropic, Google, and
OpenAI last week on some of the plans
under consideration.
Bloomberg's been told that OpenAI and
Anthropic are both joining and forming
joint ventures with financial firms to
accelerate adoption of their AI tools.
OpenAI has raised more than $4 billion
with TPG, Brookfield, Advent, and Bain
Capital. Meanwhile, Anthropic is
partnering with firms including
Blackstone and Goldman Sachs. Boosting
adoption rates has become critical for
the two firms as they target IPOs.
And Palantir Technologies has raised its
revenue outlook for the year to almost
$7.7 billion, Sales in the first quarter
rose to a record $1.63
billion,
but US commercial sales fell short of
estimates. Palantir's long-running deals
with the US and foreign governments now
faces growing competition from rival
tech companies.
>> Right. Speaking of earnings, HSBC is the
big one today here in Hong Kong. We're
down about 1.6% 141 bucks a pop here
down about two and a half
uh Hong Kong dollars here. So, a couple
of hours out with some numbers just 2
hours and 15 give or take here. So, a
couple of things, right? What the
exposure is in the Middle East, how
they're affected, how they could also be
benefiting from that. Uh let's bring in
our finance reporter, Denise Wee, is
here with us on set to give us a preview
of what to expect from this set of
numbers.
>> Yeah, so basically Iran war, we're going
to see what they're going to say around
that and if they're going to be any um
charges. Uh StanChart last week posted
190 million
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> management overlay related to the Middle
East conflict. So, we could see we're
likely to see something similar as, you
know, HSBC looks take some
precautionary provisions against their
exposures. Um you know, it's it's worth
noting that HSBC is one of the, you
know, Europe's largest banks with the
largest exposures along with StanChart.
>> Yeah.
>> So, yeah, that's something to watch
when, you know, HSBC being such a big
trade finance bank, it's also worth
seeing what they say around their
customers, any stress they're seeing in
their exposures.
>> Uh in terms of capital returns, what
what can we expect in terms of that?
>> Um well, they expected forecast supports
a 10% dividend. Um in terms of buybacks,
it's probably unlikely we'll see any
buybacks this quarter because in uh you
know, they made the big Hang Seng
acquisition last this year. And they
said it would suspend um buybacks for a
few quarters. So, I think on that front
we're likely to not see that this
quarter.
>> Okay. Anything else that we're looking
at in terms of the
>> Um I think generally the banks, you
know, the the pre-tax profits expected
to be flat about 9.6 billion, but wealth
to be expected to do well. StanChart
last week also did strong wealth
performance. UBS strong net new money
out of Asia. So, we expect to see
similar story for HSBC. Um also on the
trading book, it'll be interesting to
see how they fare cuz we've seen Wall
Street banks do really well. It's been a
bonanza equities trading. I mean, HSBC's
equities platform is probably not as big
as these banks, but it'll be interesting
to see how they perform on that front.
>> Okay. Denise, thank you. That is sweet
there. Our finance reporter on what to
expect when it comes to HSBC results
coming out in just a few hours or so. As
course for our subscribers, you can also
turn to your terminal for more on those
earnings. TLIV GO is your function for
the latest updates plus commentary
analysis from our expert editors. This
is Bloomberg.
In some world news this morning, Indian
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP has
won a historic landslide in West Bengal
state ending 15 years of rule by Chief
Minister Mamata Banerjee. Now the win
underscores the BJP's broadening support
base beyond traditional strongholds in
the north and west. The victory gives
Modi fresh momentum to advance his
political and economic agenda.
Taiwanese President Lai Ching-te has
left the southern African kingdom of
Eswatini after a surprise visit that
defied Beijing's efforts to block his
diplomatic outreach. A source says Lai
was returning to Taiwan on the Eswatini
monarch's private plane. An earlier plan
to visit Taiwan's only African ally was
blocked after three China-friendly
nations closed their airspace to his
aircraft. New evidence is adding to the
case that a Chinese Eastern Airlines
plane that crashed in 2022 killing all
132 people on board was intentionally
brought down. The US NTSB says fuel
switches were turned off while the
Boeing 737 was at a cruising altitude.
The agency's report was written in 2022
but only released this month under the
Freedom of Information Act. Chinese
authorities have cited national security
reasons for not releasing a final
report.
Apollo Management says private credit is
now the safer place for investors to be
even as a rise of artificial
intelligence is dramatically shifting
the investing ecosystem. Now the
co-president John Zeito spoke to us at
the Milken Institute Global Conference
about how valuation frameworks need to
adapt to the new regime.
>> We're in a completely different regime
for investing.
We're in a completely different regime
for how things are going to be over the
next 3 4 5 years if you believe in AI if
you are in fact AGI pilled
and you
you know the the way that you're going
to have to invest the way that you're
going to have to underwrite the way that
your entire business is going to have to
function will have to shift. And the
valuation framework for both public
market investors and private market
investors is going to have to change.
And that's I think very exciting. I
think it's very exciting for people in
the in the industry who are adaptive and
love investing and love seeing around
the corner.
>> It is it is such a big difference though
because it used to be an industry that
loved asset light high margins. This
requires kind of the opposite of that.
So much investing needs to go into that.
Is this an industry prepared for it
besides the you know giants the Apollos
the Blackstones of the world?
>> Yeah. I mean look look at Intel for
example. You know Intel for
like 10 15 years effectively was a drag
on the entire equity market and for a
decade they were viewed as the
the the dumb money for actually
investing in their infrastructure.
And we financed the deal where when we
financed the deal 2 years ago to finance
their fab and to build new chips in
Ireland everybody hated it. Everyone
called us and said what do you what
could you possibly do to invest in
Intel?
And we got refinanced this year and and
the story's not about us getting
refinanced. It's about the stock this
year which is up 500% because the entire
world realizing that instead of wanting
to be asset light maybe it's about being
asset heavy. Maybe what before was the
rubric for success it was all about code
was the scarce asset, right? Now it's
compute. It's data integrity data data
quality. It's your talent. What kind of
talent do you have? It's It's all of
these things, the whole framework
is is shifting, I think.
I from again, I think it's really
exciting, but it's not about private or
public. It's the whole valuation rubric
and how you think about where you want
to be in the in the strategic ecosystem
of your business.
>> So the valuation rubric has changed.
Does the industry as a whole realize
that? John, do you think everybody is
going to start to have to change their
mindset in this way or is it just a
select few that can participate?
>> I mean, look at look at what we've been
doing. I mean, asset we're going much
closer to the asset. We bought Atlantic
Aviation this year. We financed over $10
billion of chips for for SpaceX. So GPU
financings, power, defense, all of the
things that are going to require to
grow, all the CapEx needs and to go
asset heavy
is actually the exciting part of private
credit, not the old LBO loans that
people made and everyone talks about.
The actual excitement is investment
grade lending for all this CapEx for a
lot more asset heaviness.
>> The Apollo co-president there, John
Zito, with of course our colleague Danny
Burger at the Milken Global Conference
in
Beverly Hills. But back to this part of
the world, one of the big releases today
was this really nasty inflation print
that came through out in the Philippines
and at 7.2% really the highest since
2023. The stats bureau already
commenting that the risk here is really
as it pertains to food inflation that
goes into transport costs and really one
of the most exposed economies to really
the global oil price, which by the way,
right, surged back to about 115
barrel overnight. So the story ain't
ain't over by a long shot.
>> Uh Bloomberg Economics, they they've
come up with a report in reaction to the
CPI surge and and they're saying this
does flag potentially more rate hikes
from the BSP and and their next meeting
is June 18th. The only question
according to Mara Henderson is by how
much are they going to hike now just
given that as you mentioned there, we
were talking about a 4% print in March
which was already
past their their their range. You're
talking about a 7% print on inflation
now. That is well above of course what
they've been targeting. So certainly
we'll see how this but they're talking
about food, they're talking about energy
that really drove this this jump here as
well. So lots to talk about of course as
we count down to the RBA decision as
well. They're set to hike for a third
straight meeting.
>> Yes. In fact Joey Chui will be joining
us out of HSBC to help us really
understand. So you have the Philippine
peso, you know, where they think that's
going to go. Do they Does the BSP need
to do more in terms of intervention
to really stem the losses there. She
also has some really good thoughts on
the Japanese yen and whether or not we
should be on the lookout for further
intervention there and of course the RBA
given just this broad hawkish tilt we're
seeing across the world. And just you
know, one last note on the Philippines
too, right? The
last conversation we had with the
with the BSP governor where the the the
debate within the board was not so much
to hike but the size of the hike at the
last meeting. They were thinking of
going even 50 at that point and might
this print even bring 50 as base case
and might they have to do something even
before that next meeting on on June June
18th. Anyway,
lots to talk about with Joey Chui coming
up as well. We will leave you with a
look at the Hang Seng Tech Index which
is down 2% so we're effectively back to
levels on Friday which truly underscores
sometimes why it just pays not to do
anything, right? At some point the sun
will cross back above you. You just have
to wait a full year but it's going to
come back sooner or later. That's
exactly where we are on Friday's levels
on the Hang Seng Tech Index.
>> Welcome back to the China show. A much
different sort of picture that we've
seen from about 24 hours ago when we
were talking about Asian stocks at
records here. We're now come off that
just given the latest when it comes to
Iran where you have the US and Iran
exchanging fire in the Gulf. There's
cracks in this ceasefire and there's a
lot of lingering questions of what
happens in the Strait of Hormuz. So oil
as well back above 113 or so for Brent
futures here this morning. You are now
even seeing Taiwan a flip into negative
territory and there you go Hong Kong
down 1 and 1/2% Dave.
>> Yeah, some of the big winners yesterday
and traders are simply unwinding some of
those longs that they went into
yesterday or short covering if you think
about it
in some cases. So it is generally about
of risk aversion. Although S&P futures
are finding a somewhat of a floor going
into the session today. So one of note.
The other thing of course is Philippine
inflation
which the equity market by the way is I
believe at session highs right now. So
climbing continuing to move against the
grain of what you would have expected
there.
The comment coming through out of
Bloomberg economics is yes, we will
likely get a hike and it's really a
question of how much the next hike will
be, how big the next hike will be. It's
June 18th and I you know dare I say
should we now entertain even an
off-cycle move given how quickly of
course this inflation print has
effectively tripled from the start of
the year because of this energy exposure
that the economy has. Dollar China,
Dollar Japan, Dollar peso and of course
we also have an RBA decision coming
through today and the expectation is for
a hike with the exception I believe of
one economist.
>> Our very own.
So we will we will see if if if this
turns out to be
the one. Okay.
Oil prices, an update there.
I think we we settled at 106 on West
Texas, 114 and Brent. We're coming off a
little bit there. Gold is just at about
has been extremely range bound, but it's
been at the very low end of that range
of 4,500 on on Brent future on gold
futures.
>> an interesting take from Mark Franklin
from Manual Life about why we're seeing
gold behave that it is. It's because
there's a lot of central banks right now
that need the dollars really.
>> Liquidity, yeah.
>> Um and what they're doing is they're
selling gold uh to to source that
dollars as a source for energy
alternatives around the world. So
certainly that's one thing to watch as
well. Um but yes, uh when it comes to
oil once again, we're coming off the
highs, but we're still talking about a
bit of a wake-up call here this morning.
The US and Iran have exchanged fire in
the Persian Gulf in a flare-up of
violence that also drew in the United
Arab Emirates. For the latest, let's
bring in our Horizons Middle East and
Africa anchor Joumana Bercetche. She
joins us now from Dubai. Also want to
bring in Min Min Low, our China
correspondent. She's here with us in the
studio. Joumana, I'll start with you.
What really led to this latest flare-up
you think?
>> Yeah, well, uh you know, things have
dramatically taken a turn for the worse
in the last 24 hours. And I think the
main catalyst was uh the fact that
yesterday around this time President
Trump put up a post on Truth Social
announcing this Project Freedom and the
fact that the US were going to start uh
not escorting is the word that they
used, but guiding some of the stranded
vessels that were stuck in the Persian
Gulf through the Strait of Hormuz. And
IE just physically forcing their way
through the Strait of Hormuz in a
flagrant violation of the Iranian
blockades. IE their uh patience with the
Iranian blockade had started to run
thin. And so that set off a series of
events yesterday. It was a very active
day on the Strait. Loads of signals
being uh at uh triggered. Uh we had
multiple reports of vessels being
attempted to get fired on. Um but by the
end of the day, CENTCOM said that two
two US flagged vessels did actually make
it through the strait, but that they had
managed to successfully
sort of
go past the threat of Iranian drones and
strikes. There were attempted strikes on
these US vessels. And then President
Trump later said that they had to
specifically target six of these very
fast powered Iranian boats. A lot of
activity on the street. And then at the
same time,
the Iranians had targeted an Adnoc
vessel. This was obviously UAE
a UAE flagged vessel off the coast coast
of Fujairah. And then later on in the
evening, UAE residents started getting
all of these missile alert warnings. The
first time we've received them since the
beginning of the ceasefire to indicate
that there was more incoming projectiles
being directed towards the UAE again in
another flagrant violation of the
ceasefire. So the question where we go
from here obviously is there has been a
lot of activity on the street as I've
been talking about, but at the same time
given that Iran has started firing
projectiles once again at the UAE, not
only how is the UAE going to respond to
that and they of course have
massively condemned these attacks and
have reiterated their right to
self-defense, but what did the US do
here? What did Israel do here? An IDF
official was quoted as saying that they
are ready to go once again. And I think
from this point onwards, President Trump
has to make a decision once again about
whether we go back to full-blown
military escalation including on land or
whether we continue with this battle of
the strait so to speak.
>> About an hour and a half back, Jumana,
CBS reporting here that I think to your
point that you had two US Navy
destroyers transiting through the Strait
of Hormuz. Where are we on
the peace talks? Are they still talking
to each other? Are we putting that on
the back burner for now given everything
else that's taking place in the last few
hours.
>> Yes. So So I I think here you need to
think about the sequencing, right? And
what the Iranians have said is in order
for them to move to the second round of
negotiations, they you you need to first
have a mutual lifting of both blockades
around the Strait of Hormuz. From
President Trump's standpoint, he's
always asserted that you can't separate
the two issues. It's not as though, you
know, Iran can
use this point of leverage so that they
can extract more concessions on the
nuclear file. That is not acceptable to
the US and is the reason why they put
this blockade in in the first place. It
was not an end in itself, but a means to
an end to extract more concessions out
of the Iranians. So where we are today,
it seems very clear that the US want to
establish safe pathways through the
Strait of Hormuz for commercial vessels
and for the vessels that are stranded
there. Yesterday we heard from
the
the the the head of the Central Command,
Admiral Cooper, and he was saying that
the there are mines on the Strait, but
it's not extensive and that for the US,
they actually can establish these safe
pathways. And yesterday was a bit of a
test as we were talking about because of
those two vessels that managed to
navigate through safely. Of course, the
Iranians have a different take on it and
you were just putting up a post there
from the Iranian Foreign Minister, Abbas
Araqchi, and he said, "This is a
political conflict and it can't be
solved militarily.
Any
Any action on the Strait of Hormuz will
will prompt retaliation out of the
Iranians." And so from their
perspective, it seems as though they're
inclining or moving towards wanting to
restart those diplomatic discussions
again.
But the from the US's perspective, their
patience has run thin with what the
Iranians have been doing around the
Strait of Hormuz, hence the action in
the last 24 hours.
>> Yeah, Memon, you talk about the
diplomacy in the previous hour here. We
did hear from President Trump, and he
still seems confident he's going to be
meeting with President Xi this month.
Let's take a listen first.
>> We're leading China in AI,
and I'm going to go see President Xi in
2 weeks. I look forward to that, but
I'll say I'm leading.
We have friendly We have very friendly
competition.
But,
uh it'll be a Actually, it'll be a very
important trip.
>> It's going to happen, it seems, but how
is it going to change the whole dynamics
with the Iran situation?
>> Yeah, I think it's interesting he made a
comment almost a joke there about how
the US is leading, and it's coming
against this backdrop where people are
starting to question whether the US is
entering this summit in a weakened
position just because the Iran war is
still dragging on. The ceasefire is
quite fragile here, and yet the US has
not announced or declared
a ceasefire has been broken. Clearly,
the US still trying to keep things on
the rail here. Whether or not it's going
to change things is in Iran, I think,
you know, China's position on Iran has
been nothing but consistent. And despite
the latest calls from Scott Bessent for
China to participate in this mission in
that Project Freedom to try to escort
these ships out of the Strait of Hormuz,
we haven't heard from China, but so far,
signals from China are that they don't
want to commit anything minute
militarily, right? Sending naval assets
to the region to escort the ships, they
would see this as a form of
action that could provoke escalation
from Iran, particularly as Iran had made
specific threats on US ships that are
approaching the strait. And again,
explicitly calling ships that are
passing through to seek permission from
Iran.
>> Just dawned on me, that meeting is 10
days away. So, like, any any expectation
that the war would be over by the time
these two meet, I think it's it's it's
we could
we could toss it out the window.
What do we talk about the soybeans very
quickly because the market has turned
their attention now to soybeans yet
again.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, if you look at
what the markets are pricing when it
comes to soybean futures, that is at the
highest level in near term since
mid-March or so, which means that
traders are expecting that perhaps, or
at least they're hoping that China would
purchase more soybeans from the US. And
this is something we're watching because
remember the last time that they met,
when President Trump and Xi met in South
Korea, China actually had bought some
soybeans ahead of the summit as a
goodwill measure. Will they do it this
time? That window is closing. We are
less than 10 days away. We haven't seen
that sort of gesture yet. And of course,
traders are hoping that China would buy
a more old crop US soybeans in the
coming summer months. Typically, China
doesn't like to do that. They like to
buy at the end of the year when you when
the new crops come out because in the
summer months, Brazilian soybeans tend
to be cheaper. So again, there are no
signals from both the US and Chinese
side that that is going to happen, but
suddenly traders are speculating that
maybe that could be at least a a
low-hanging fruit that could come out of
the summit.
>> All right. Team, thank you so much. Min
Min Low there on the China angle and and
Jamana of course Versace there in in
Dubai first with all the latest coming
through out of the region. Coming up,
HSBC head of Asia research, FX research
specifically, Joey Chui will be joining
us to talk us through uh well, basically
their take on everything that's been
going on in the FX markets, everything
from yen intervention, we have this RBA
decision. It looks like they'll hike and
this really extremely hot red hot
inflation print coming through uh the
Philippines. He'll be joining us in a
couple of minutes. Stay tuned for that
conversation. Lots more ahead. This is
the China show.
Right. Um
yeah, uh the currency market, I think
the market has been extremely clear and
swift from almost from the get-go which
currencies
just have been in here just are
inherently negative correlated to high
oil prices, right? And I think the
uh the anchor that the yuan brings is
quite evident really from spot returns
since the war started, and you have the
big energy importers like the
Philippines, Thailand, and India have
just really been uh bottom of the barrel
here. And you know, does this continue
to be the case? Uh 3 months in with oil
at let's call it an average of 100 bucks
over the last 3 months or so, 10 weeks.
Let's bring in Joey Chew, head of Asia
FX research at HSBC. Joey, good morning.
We were going to I was going to ask you
about the yen, but this inflation print
out of the Philippines today is forcing
my hand.
Um
Do you think
Do you think Should we consider a 50
basis point hike now?
Uh for from the BSP, and should we also
continue to to to for them to be active
in the markets?
>> Look, I I think you know, Philippines
inflation is definitely rising a lot
above expectations. There might be a lot
of this second-round effects that's
already happening, for example, in food,
etc. So, uh so yeah, I think uh BSP will
clearly be uh will still be very
concerned, and you know, more rate hikes
definitely is uh likely on the cards.
It's also in HSBC economist base case.
As for whether you will help the peso or
not, I think uh you know, it's subject
to uh how oil prices are doing still,
and how risk sentiment will hold up. And
also for Philippines, a lot of this is,
you know, inevitable, right? It's to do
with the current account deficit. It
takes time to correct that.
>> Yeah, I mean, as you as you saw on that
chart there, they're at the bottom of
the barrel in terms of Asia's worst uh
performing currencies since this this
war began. How are you assessing the
sensitivities of these currencies in
Asia to the oil price right now? Which
are particularly, you know, beyond the
Philippines, the most exposed, the most
vulnerable right now?
>> I think Thai baht is also I mean, it is
the second worst-performing currency for
good reason, right? Uh and but the good
thing about Thai baht compared to peso
is that inflation is starting at a lower
point, right? So, you know, the pain to
the economy seems to be a little bit
more delayed or a little bit less. With
that being said, there are other issues
for Thai baht, right? For example, the
fact is that Thai baht or Thailand, the
economy is actually very exposed to the
economies in Middle East. So, as the
Middle East economies get into a worse
and worse shape, then there will be
other spillover effects into the Thai
economy as well. For example, from
tourism.
>> Yeah.
Go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry.
Uh, yeah, Joey, okay. Tourism. So, so
clearly that the baht and the peso
remain the case.
I wonder whether this is this is it. In
other words, you know, the market, as we
were pointing out, Joey, as you know,
has been extremely quick to
um, to to toss the effects, the
currencies into respective barrels, you
know, the
inherently bad and inherently just
fundamentally okay.
Um, but with oil prices, and let's call
it 3 months now at 100 bucks, is this
going to show up in another way?
Uh, in currency markets that we should
start to, I guess, expect?
>> I mean, look, I think as, you know, oil
prices stay high for longer and longer,
even those that have inventory
stockpile, eventually they will also run
into some issues that they would not
have if, you know, if the issue if the
whole conflict had just ended in 1 or 2
months. So, I think we need to be
careful here about, you know, who are
the ones that are truly resilient. I
mean, I think even resilience has to be
relative within the within the Asian
context and not necessarily against the
dollar.
>> And we've seen, you know, the
intervention, right? Or, you know, what
we can gather as what looks to be
intervention even from the Japanese last
week, right? Where where, you know, it
seemed like 160 was a clear line in the
sand, and they finally acted on in some
ways. We're at you know we're sub 160
now.
You know, how much intervention can can
Japan do and can they actually keep
dollar yen below 160?
>> I mean we had to you know one a few days
of intervention potentially. As you know
here Japan has a lot of effects results.
I don't think that issue here is about
reserves adequacy. It's not about the
means whether they have enough means to
do it. It's about what the efficacy you
know like whether it it's it's it's a
good timing to do it right now when oil
prices are still rising. You know
obviously they want to do it with
speculative forces a lot. But you know
right now I think there's some cleaning
up in speculative positions already. So
we might need to wait for another build
up. I think before we see you know
another round of intervention.
>> And you know for investors and traders
out there Joey that obviously continue
to expect and I imagine based on your
comment there also expect the yen to
continue to be weak. How do you now
express that though now that it seems
like on the dollar yen specifically we
have a a very strong line in the sand
albeit of course maybe transitory.
>> Yeah that's right. I mean dollar yen is
always going to be subject to a lot of
intervention risk. But you know even
before dollar yen was
you know moving a lot actually the yen
near the yen against a basket of
currencies was already hitting record
lows
for for quite a few weeks even before
this round of intervention. So as
mentioned I think the yen is just weak
from a lot of reasons be it from the
risk appetite reasons or from the yield
differential or from oil imports. So I
think there are other ways to express
this
other than just against the dollar.
>> Yeah
it it seems interesting too with the
dollar right? I mean what we heard from
the Fed last week was that you know they
were less
less dovish
and it seems like it's going to be
higher for longer at least well well to
2027 it seems you know what we're seeing
in broad the pricing.
I mean is this going to be a substantial
shift where it it reinforces a more
structural support for the dollar moving
forward?
>> Yeah, I think so because previously I
think the the thing that was holding the
dollar back was still this idea that you
know the Trump administration somehow
wants a weaker dollar and might
potentially be able to get it maybe
through you know a a new governor but as
it turns out you know the the shift is
happening in the FOMC and the data is
panning out to be quite supportive of a
strong dollar. So it's possible that as
long as oil prices stay high the dollar
might not be able to sell off that
easily. Of course we can still see from
positioning and from you know whenever
there is some kind of
positive headline coming out from the
conflict there's a lot of sell dollar
trade. I think that will still be in
play and for us you know I think a
de-escalation type of trade will
inevitably have to be something like a
sell dollar trade.
>> Yet Joey we're not even
um mid-May
not even
you know at midway point of the year. I
have actually had it just with news flow
it's just been extremely crazy. I'm sure
you guys too just following these
headlines. If I want to fall asleep
today
and buy a bond buy a currency and wake
up this time next year Joey what is that
trade?
>> Um look I think it's uh for us we in
Asia we still like RMB especially on a
relative value basis. I mean I think
even against the dollar is quite stable.
Uh it is likely to still appreciate
against a lot of other Asian currencies.
We also like it against the euro.
Another currency that I also think will
hold up reasonably well is the Sing
dollar.
Uh admittedly both RMB and Sing dollar
are relatively low yielding but you know
you that's that's the trade off right?
The safety and the resilience. There is
something has to give.
>> Yeah. We'll take that boringness any any
day.
>> Give me that near.
>> All right, Joey. Thanks for joining us
there, Joey Chew, our head of Asia FX
research at HSBC joining us from
Singapore. We're still ahead. We're
counting down to what's expected to be a
third straight hike from the RBA today
and winding all of last year's cuts, of
course, because of the Iran war and the
inflation risk out there. We've got a
preview coming up. Uh perhaps a bit of a
non-consensus call from our Bloomberg
Economics. This is Bloomberg.
Some stories that we're following for
you today. Palantir Technologies has
raised its revenue outlook for the year
to almost $7.7 billion. That's far
exceeding analyst estimates. Sales in
the first quarter rose to a record $1.63
billion, but US commercial sales fell
short of expectations. Palantir's
long-running deals with the US and
foreign governments now faces growing
competition from rival tech companies.
The SEC says it's investigating
allegations of fraud in US private
credit firms. Its chairman, Paul Atkins,
told the Milken Conference in Beverly
Hills they're taking the allegations
seriously, but declined to say
specifically which companies are under
scrutiny. Atkins has previously said the
sector is not a systemic risk, but noted
in April the commission was tracking
quote emerging pressures.
A Hong Kong insider trading trial has
been told that Bank of America staff
working on a 2017 share sale did not
wall cross Sagicor Capital Management
before disclosing some information about
the potential deal. Prosecutors made the
claim as Sagicor founder Simon Sadler
and former trader Daniel LaRocca face
court. They've pleaded not guilty to
insider dealing over a 2017 block trade
of shares in fashion company Esprit.
TikTok owner is ByteDance says it will
be charging some users for its AI
chatbot Doubao with fees ranging from
$10 a month for the basic version to
more than $70 for more sophisticated
platforms, but it has not said when
those plans will go into effect.
ByteDance says Doubao will continue to
offer a free version for quote daily
needs.
>> Okay, 10% gains on MediaTek listed in in
Taiwan. You have this is really an
earning story.
Daily limit second straight day. I think
we had similar gains that we had on
Monday here. So obviously better than
expected set of numbers coming out of
the company. You have upbeat guidance as
well. Really one of the best performing
stocks across the region today. Granted
of course it's a smaller pool because a
lot of markets are up shots. Right,
there's a trading debut to tell you
about here in Hong Kong. Star Sports
Medicine. We are coming up highs. We
opened about 190 or so percent
to the upside. We're pairing some of
that right now,
but yes, again another blockbuster debut
here in Hong Kong. Earnings HSBC is
coming out in about 90 minutes or so. So
watch out for things like
you know, jaws which is effectively
profitability.
It's interesting too on a really good
point coming through out of
Denise Wee, our financial reporter who
joined us earlier with the preview and
they look out if they will do a stand
chart, if they will provision more in
terms of their exposure on the loan book
because of their you know, massive
presence of course in the Middle East.
Stand chart did I think roughly the
same, but on the wealth side and on the
market side of things, things are
actually quite well. When you look at
the other Wall Street other banks that
have reported there.
>> Yeah, so certainly that's one thing.
There was also news of OCBC are going to
be
HSBC's Indonesia retail and and wealth
assets as well. That came out here early
this morning as well. So, that's one
thing to deal with here when it comes to
HSBC. And of course, as we remind you,
Chinese markets, you have Japan and
Korea. Those three are all shut today.
So, certainly that does lead to some
volumes a bit lower here. You know, risk
sentiment is low. You know, there is a
lot, you know, hanging here on really
what what what looks What do we look
What do we go from here after you see
this whole Iran situation right now once
again.
>> Um I think prolonged conflict is the
assumption coming through out of
Bloomberg Economics. Sporadic fighting.
So, get used to this and oil will remain
on the
on the elevated side of things. Uh just
a note on the volumes that Yvonne just
mentioned there. We're about 90% lighter
on the benchmark basis. So, really goes
to show, what are we even doing here?
There's lots of things going on. All
right, we'll take a short break. We'll
be back on the other side of it.
>> All right, we are checking when it comes
to Aussie assets here today. That RBA
decision just about, well, 2 hours or
so. And certainly, we talked about, you
know, the the EM FX risk has been really
big when it comes to energy prices and
what we've been seeing in in really Asia
FX. Aussie dollar though stands out on a
good note, right? It's one of the ones
that actually has been gaining all this
year. Obviously, we've been talking
about when it comes to rate hikes,
right? They are set to deliver a third
straight rate hike later on today. Uh
but yeah, I think all but one economist
thinks that they will do that today.
>> Yeah, if only we had access to that one
>> That one. That lone one.
>> What is happening underneath the hood?
In fact, you know, we we actually do.
So, 31 out of 32 think they'll hike.
That one, of course, joins us right now.
James McIntyre, our Bloomberg economist,
of course, thinks that the RBA
if the RBA hikes today, it would be a a
policy mistake. James, yeah, good good
morning. Lay out the case for us. Why
why would it be erroneous to move today?
>> Yeah, when you're thinking about
monetary policy, you know, interest rate
movements operate with long and variable
lags, right? And so, any move today by
the Central Bank,
whether it's the RBA or anyone, there is
a strong chance that as the growth hit
percolates its way through the global
economy, and it's going to hit
Australia's economy
fairly substantially
over coming months. As that growth hit
arrives, it's going to quash these
inflation pressures and see
Central Banks potentially having to
reverse course. So, if you are, you
know, by definition, if you if you're
hiking rates and then having to quickly
go back in the other direction, it's
kind of an indication that that might
have been a policy mistake. We don't
know is the challenge, and that's a very
significant uncertainty to the
environment and a very significant
uncertainty for policy making. For the
and so, my view is with the RBA having
raised rates twice already this year,
February, March, back-to-back rate
hikes, it's for them to deliver a third
hike when we've got an inflation outcome
that's backward-looking that was okay
and some wobbly economic numbers, it
might just be that they're lining up for
a very quick reversal of any rate hike
that they might deliver this afternoon.
>> But James, I'm I'm still talking about
oil markets that are north of 100 110
even if you look at some contracts, and
and there's no sign of this war really
ending anytime soon. Do you think the
RBA has done enough in terms of taming
inflation expectations?
>> Well, what's really Yeah, that's right.
Are those two hikes that they've
delivered thus far um, enough to put the
or to keep the inflation genie a little
bit restrained, uh, because we know that
no matter what, uh, the RBA or any
central bank does, there's no amount of
interest rate, uh, hikes that are going
to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. But what
has been also done in the background in
the Australian context that's very
important and interesting for, uh,
inflation from an inflation expectations
perspective, is the work that the
government has been doing on the side.
There's a big, uh, move by the
government to reduce fuel taxes and also
efforts to secure throughout, uh, from
Asian refiners, secure domestic fuel
supplies and put a price on those. And
so what's happened is that we've
actually seen in the weekly data that
came out yesterday, and we put this in
the, uh, in the note that we, uh, did
previewing the RBA, we saw that those
petrol prices at the pump are back to
where they were at pre-war levels
despite, uh, the Brent, uh, and
wholesale crude prices being what they
are. That's a very significant effort
when it comes to those tax cuts, uh, and
a lot of heavy lifting by the government
that will result in consumers' inflation
expectations being pulled back down.
That's a big help for the RBA.
>> James, let's
maybe let's go down the the slowdown
route that you, uh, the the the premise
and your thesis here. And I if I could
ask my producers to pull up the Can we
pull up the cash rate chart again?
Because it So if they hike today,
they'll take the cash rate back
effectively to the peak of the cycle,
which, and, you know, effectively they
they didn't cut rates anyway even
halfway back down.
Uh, so effectively, the last, what,
three, four years, rates have been
extremely high and restrictive.
Uh, well, number one, do you agree with
that assessment that they have been
restrictive enough?
And why hasn't the economy responded to
such tight policy.
>> Well, part of the what's going on and
what's helpful for Australia's economy
is the population story. So, we've got a
less buoyant environment, I guess,
offshore. And so, Australians are
staying at home instead of leaving. And
so, that net inbound migration that we
have
has resulted in strong population
growth, which has been a bit of a growth
boost or growth driver. A recession in
New Zealand is actually a bit of a a
problem for the Reserve Bank of
Australia because Kiwis are allowed to
move freely. And so, that's added labor
supply, but it's also added demand in
the economy. So, that's one of the
things that monetary policy in Australia
is actually needed to be a little bit
tight for.
Um so, it hasn't held back growth that
much because
we've had extra people coming in. Per
capita growth, that's actually where you
do see when you pull apart the economy,
you do see that weakness coming through.
And that per capita growth is likely to
be weaker going forward based on what
consumers are telling us.
High-frequency consumer sentiment
indicators and the monthly ones are
telling us that consumers are feeling
very, very scared about this, very
uncertain, and they have very
significant fears about their
unemployment and their jobs. And that's
something that we think, aside from the
petrol prices soak, which have returned,
the energy hit potentially soaking up
some of the cash in their wallets, but
those wallets staying closed. And that's
a big challenge when it comes to to
demand. And that's the type of growth
hit that will increasingly become
apparent as over the course of the rest
of this year. And that could be the
thing that results in the RBA having to
turn around, perhaps even as soon as the
end of next year, or we think
early or sorry, end of this year, or we
think what's more likely is early in
2027 is when they begin to cut.
>> James, very interesting take there.
Thanks so much for giving us the other
side of that perspective. I've really
what everyone is saying is going to be
like the case for a whole James
McIntyre, our Bloomberg economist there
joining us out of Sydney. Of course, the
subscribers can also turn to your
terminal for more of this upcoming RBA
decision. T-live go is up and running in
your function for the latest updates
plus commentary and analysis from our
expert editors. Let's stay on what it
comes to Australia now because Westpac
says that geopolitical conflict is
forcing new scenario modeling of oil
supply shocks and price risks. The
bank's chief economist Lucy Ellis spoke
to us at the Bloomberg New Voices event
in Sydney alongside 10 Cap co-founder
Junbei Lu and Goldman Sachs's head of
Australia and M&A Marissa Friend.
>> The way we tend to frame it is twofold.
One is
holding on to kind of core principles
rather than specific relationships. So
you're thinking through, well, people
will respond to this. So that's one. You
you you've always got to go beyond your
first round thinking. You know, people
will respond. So high oil prices, well,
people will buy electric cars. People
will try and find other places where
they can produce oil. People will stop
relying so much on the US for defense
partnership. So you've got to think
about, well, how will the other person
react? And um that really helps you
think through things. The second thing
that we've done and this is something
we've done uh quite a bit recently at
Westpac Economics is making greater use
of scenarios. So we're always publishing
forecasts. So we have a monthly forecast
publication, but increasingly we are
using scenarios to articulate the risks
in a different way. Now that does
require having sort of more
sophisticated modeling than than
typically, you know, our customers were
used to seeing. And so there's a lot of
that going on behind the scenes. It's
something we probably couldn't have done
a few years ago as easily, uh but we
think it's important to
be transparent you about where some of
those uncertainties are. And so you'll
see the the forecasting scenarios we've
published, you know, are based on, okay,
if the Strait of Hormuz is closed for
this long,
how does that change your assumptions
about overall global supply based on
what we know about demand for oil and
how people respond to higher prices?
What does that mean for the market
clearing price? We're not just making up
a price, we are actually modeling that
from the underlying demand and supply.
So, to be able to do that and go down to
the next layer of abstraction is really
important.
>> Jimba, you thrive on volatility, right?
>> We love it.
We're in the equity market. Look,
what equity market is trying to do is
that we combine what economists think
and what's happening with the economy
and trying to predict what happens in 6
to 12 month time. So, that's why you see
the volatility is because the view in 6
to 12 month time keeps changing. Now, of
course, that's also because fund manager
also think we know a lot better than
everyone else. We know a little bit of a
something and but look look forward in
12 month, we keep thinking, okay, what
does that mean? Has that re-change how I
think about in 12 month time? Now,
Australia had inflation problem before
we even start this war. So, that
inflation problem is still going to be
intact. So,
you know, RBA is going to put up their
interest rate. They will continue to put
up their interest rate even without
worrying about these war. So, these are
some of the things that we can anchor on
to. So, as a equity market investor,
we'll still think, okay, areas that gets
impacted by high interest rate will
still get impacted. Other areas will
still change and going along their path.
Now, war just made it worse.
So, it's made it worse and you know,
potentially there'll be more lingering
impact. Consumer may get impacted a
little bit more. So, there's a whole lot
of things now that that's why you're
seeing a little bit more volatility in
those share prices. Now,
now, as a fundamental investor, this is
actually where you see opportunity.
You're absolutely right. Particularly
when you can go long and short. It's a
bit tougher in your space, isn't it,
Marissa? How do you determine
fundamental value at a time when markets
are so volatile?
>> The market that I operate in has just
said well, perhaps we live in a volatile
world and perhaps that volatile world is
going to persist for a while and we
can't stop, you know, running our
businesses. We can't stop doing things
that make strategic sense. So let's just
keep going not withstanding that
environment. So that there are some
green shoots that we're starting to see.
>> Yeah.
There we go. Heidi of course and her
fantastic panel there in in Sydney at
the joining us of course at the
Bloomberg U Voices event taking place
there very very recently. Right, just
ahead Indian Prime Minister Narendra
Modi winning big in state elections with
voters taking two of his most outspoken
opponents. We'll have the details next.
This is Bloomberg.
Let's turn our attention on India where
you have the Prime Minister Narendra
Modi's BJP has expanded its support base
in state elections with voters ousting
two of the opposition's most vocal
leaders in the process. April Hong is
with us right now with the details of
the results and I think more importantly
April what this actually could mean
for Modi.
>> Yeah, this is significant for him. I
mean just coming two years after he was
dealt a blow at the national elections
by not winning a majority. This time
around he's managed to show his enduring
popularity with the BJP's resounding
victory in the eastern state of West
Bengal and then of course in Tamil Nadu
with a shock loss for the incumbent
there. And essentially what Modi's
managed to do now is take out two very
vocal opposition critics. For example,
you look at West Bengal where Mamata
Banerjee was a stalwart. She is of
course India's most high-profile female
politician and also seen as somebody
that was the most possibly mounting a
credible opposition to Modi in the 2029
national elections. And think about as
well with the victory of sorts for
Joseph VJ in Tamil Nadu, which of course
is a state that is an economic
powerhouse. This is essentially seen as
allowing Modi's allies to align more
closely with him. So, all in all it's
seen as Modi being able to gain fresh
momentum to pursue his economic, his
political agenda.
>> And this coming at a time when obviously
Indian stocks are sort of out of favor.
What do you think the market reaction is
going to be like?
>> Yeah, they've come under a lot of
pressure. Obviously, India as a market,
as you know, it has one of the highest
negative correlations in the region to
the oil prices. And we are seeing the
futures coming under a bit of pressure,
no thanks to the recent rebound. So,
call it a case of bad timing, but
actually last night we did see already
some of the early reaction to the
election results, that victory optimism,
so to speak. And of course, this was
also part of the broader rally we saw in
the region, which was led by tech. Now,
among the market reactions, specific
sectors that we are watching will be the
Adani group of companies, given how they
have been aligning very closely with
Modi's agenda. We're also watching
industrial infrastructure related
stocks. They might benefit a little bit,
even though on an index level we might
still see India coming under slight
pressure. I would just note as well that
renewables, those are a bunch of stocks
that have really rallied very hard so
far this year amid the push for them.
Some of them climbing by double digits
so far this year. So, we're watching
that in terms of the reaction going into
the markets open today.
>> All right, April. Thank you. April Hong
there with a preview what to expect when
it comes to India markets as they open
up to this
new election sort of boost for Modi and
the BJP party. And you stay on what what
really has been going on, right? This
equity's rebound that we've seen in
India has been nascent, but it's
gathering pace in the coming months. And
it's not really the foreign investors
that I think that's really playing ball
here. It's really the local domestic
flows that are supporting this market
still. And they're still looking ahead
when it comes to earnings and they say
could be pretty rosy, too, so far.
>> Yeah, and I think the statistic that
we we looked at here was I think
whenever the the index gained 5% in a
month, it tended to continue those gains
about 80, you know, they say 84, 85% of
the time uh moving forward. And I think
in this case the premise is that local
investors will fill the shoes of
because, you know, foreign investors.
And it's not just solely in India,
right? You look at other EM markets, you
look at some benchmarks in China.
Foreign dollar investors have their eyes
set on
uh you know, sort of the the shiny
cities on the hill, right? Like like
Korea, like Taiwan.
Uh
but I just my counter take here is that
for
for this market to pick up,
you kind of have to take the AI thesis
somewhat needs to go away, right?
Because some of the big software plays
um Infosys, TCS are down 25%
year-to-date. So, for this market to
turn around, that thesis somewhat has to
get sort of eaten up a little bit. And
it's very difficult to see how that
quickly could I mean, they can both
coexist. They certainly can, but yeah.
>> Okay. Um so, there's that certainly
here. Uh valuations are still not cheap,
right? You're still talking about 40%
premium uh for India over its emerging
peers uh in Asia. We do have this
breaking news of the interesting scoop
here that we're seeing when it comes to
Apple as well. So, uh what we are
hearing here right now is Apple
exploring using Intel as well as Samsung
to build device processors here. So, uh
this is what we're hearing so far.
They're doing explorations uh with those
two companies, Intel and Samsung. They
remain preliminary at this point. Uh
they still see challenges when it comes
to Intel uh and Samsung catching up to
the likes of TSMC here right now, but
they are still talking with the likes of
those two companies. Uh but at this
point, they're still saying it may not
lead to an agreement. But yes, this is
what they're at least exploring here
right now according uh to our team at BN
and then the sources that they're
speaking to.
>> Yeah, and could come at the expense
potentially if this moves for at the
expense of long-time partner uh TSMC of
course in terms of just being able to
broaden out their exposure uh across
that across that supply chain.
Um
yes, uh and as Yvonne was pointing out,
uh all the big companies here involved,
Apple, Intel, Samsung, and TSMC have
have declined to comment, but I think
just looking at market reaction look at
TSMC I guess for the initial data. It's
also worth pointing out of course we
were already on a sort of down
trajectory on TSMC, and I think there is
a Samsung ETF here in Hong Kong which
will I think we can get to later on. But
yes, that is the the the briefest scoop
coming through here. Right, we have lots
more in the way here on the China show.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> All right, just recapping that Bloomberg
scoop that just came through on your
Bloomberg terminal here. So, Apple is
now holding discussions with the likes
of Intel as well as Samsung to build
device processors. So, this This just a
secondary option beyond just what their
partnership with TSMC here right now,
but they are looking at possibly talking
to these two companies here, but the
talks at this stage are as we know it
are preliminary right now.
>> Yes, and and this seems to be just
looking at some of the details here to
broaden out beyond the long-time
partner, maybe supply chain exposure.
Um, the long-time partner of course is
TSMC and I we understand of course that
we have reached out to the companies
involved and they have declined to
comment on this. On your screens, any
market reaction? I can tell you right
now S&P futures at least here have been
trading in and around these levels uh,
for the better part of
uh, the last few hours or so. Let's why
don't we bring in Mark Gurman of course
who uh, is has spearheaded this this
this Bloomberg scoop for us and to give
us more details and context. Mark,
again, fantastic set of reporting sir.
What more can you tell us about this?
>> Yes, so obviously Apple is facing some
supply chain shortages right now related
to chips. Why? Because their Macs are in
extremely high demand because they're
one of the best platforms for running on
device AI models. Uh, the other thing
you're facing here is the entire
industry uh, needing additional demand
because everyone wants to run uh, AI
models now. People are buying computers
for it. And so you've seen shortages to
the Mac mini, you've seen shortages to
Mac Studio. Tim Cook talked about it on
the Apple earnings call uh, last week.
He believes these shortages are going to
last several months.
Uh, and but Apple has been looking for
secondary suppliers for TSMC uh, for
well over a year now, right? TSMC is at
the forefront. They are far and away the
best technology provider for the
advanced nodes for manufacturing. Uh,
but you need if you're Apple given your
volumes secondary suppliers. They have
it for displays, they have it for pretty
much everything else they can. Uh, and
so they are exploring and looking into
the idea of having backup suppliers to
TSMC and the top of the list is Intel
and Samsung. Intel because now they're
part of the the US government and that
would be solid relations and it's a
good, you know, comeback story for a US
firm. Uh and Samsung, you know, they're
the the second in terms of top tier
foundries around the world and they're
building new advanced node plants in in
the US as well.
>> Uh talk talk to us about
the I mean obviously we understand the
the the need to be more flexible in
their supply chains.
Um but are there concern I mean how
serious are they looking at other
companies right now given that you know
TSMC has been that dominant
made-to-order chip manufacturer for them
for for so long now. Are there concerns
that they have about using non-TSMC
technology?
>> Nothing is imminent. I don't expect
non-TSMC chips to go into Apple products
anytime soon.
But given Apple's volumes and the
reliance that so many people have on
Apple,
it would be only responsible for them to
be taking a close look at alternative
providers. So that's exactly what
they're doing, but I don't expect
anything imminent at this point.
>> Mhm.
>> Mark, thank you. Mark Gurman there of
course fantastic scoop there out of him
and out of him there. You can check that
out of course on your Bloomberg
terminal. Nothing is imminent in as far
as that decision is concerned. The fact
that they are thinking about considering
broadening out their supply chain from
TSMC. Speaking of TSMC, let's
at Taiwan Taoyuan Airport here of course
in Taiwan.
>> Yeah, it almost kind of weaves into it
perfectly where the President Lai
Ching-te has arrived at Taoyuan Airport
here in the last couple of minutes and
making that speech to reporters at the
airport. This of course after defying
China to visit his surprise trip to
Eswatini, right? And this was despite
what we heard from reports about
Beijing's efforts to really try to
thwart his diplomatic outreach. And so
it's going to be interesting to hear
what he has to say in the speech. For
one thing, you know, they've kept it
pretty mum when he left on when he was
returning and how long he was going to
be in Eswatini and really how he got
back as well. There was reports
according to our sources that he had
used the Eswatini's private jet in terms
of the monarchy there. So, maybe we'll
see how the mode of transport he did to
come back and how difficult a journey it
might have been for him. But, yeah,
certainly going to be taking a lot of
questions there in Taipei today, Dave.
>> Absolutely. So, but we believe he has
just started speaking, of course, coming
out of that out of that plane. So, we
it's worth pointing out that he has, at
least based on the headlines that have
yet to cross, nothing still of of
knowledge. Um and of course of course
this is still early goings there uh in
in Taipei right now. We'll keep an eye
on this story, of course, for you. Uh
before we wrap things up here, just a
glance at how we're doing on the Hang
Seng index as we enter the last hour of
the morning session there. Of course,
it's extremely thin trading given a lot
of major markets are closed, mainly in
China, South Korea, and Japan are not
trading uh today. We're down about 1%.
That's it from us here on the China Show
inside. With us Linda Ammen, and it's
coming up next.